# The Holy Ancient Civilization of the Ranoferians

## Welcome to the Ranoferians! This is the first modern ancient civilization in the world. Here is all the informaton you need to know about the Ranoferians.

## Introduction

### 	Our civilization is named The Ranoferians. Our geographic location is in Egypt (hence the name) and the time period is 500 BCE. Our population is about 7,500 and it has very fertile soil, good climate - the weather will be very sunny and hot because the location is in Egypt., and bodies of water for trading, fishing, and protection. The geography of Egypt protects us from invaders of all types from all countries. These features include the Red Sea and Nile Delta. There are also harsh desserts that are tough to cross. All these features of Egypt help us make a thriving civilization.

## Food Supply

### 	Our civilization has a variety of crops being grown to survive. There are a lot of different crops to grow in our society such as wheat, lettuce, pomegranates, corn, barley and other vegetables and grain. These are all very necessary for  our civilization to thrive and prosper.

### 	One of the crops being grown is wheat. Wheat is grown from our seeds and does not require a lot of water because it is  grown in the cooler seasons. Wheat can be made into bread and flour as well as other things. Wheat is our most abundant crop, it will cost two coppers per bread loaf. Wheat itself also costs two coppers per half a pound. Another one of our crops being grown is lettuce. Lettuce is a great crop to grow because it has a lot of nutrients and we can make meals out of it such as salads. Lettuce will be grown from our seeds.  Our lettuce will cost 3 coppers per half a pound. One of our fruits is pomegranates. Our pomegranates are very rare so they cost 5 coppers per half pound. They are grown on small trees and shrubs near our village. One of the crops that are very abundant is corn. Corn does not need a lot of water so it grows very fast. Corn is grown on stalks from our seeds.  The corn costs 1 copper per half a pound. The last grain that we are producing is barley. Barley is a type of grass grown from seeds and does not need a lot of water because it is grown in the cooler seasons. Our barley costs 1 copper per half a  pound. In our civilization, everyone loves beans so we are growing Pinto Beans. Pinto beans are grown from vines planted with our seeds. The beans don’t require a lot of water either so they are easy to care for. Pinto beans cost 2 coppers per half a pound. One of our other vegetables grown is tomatoes. Tomatoes take a while to grow so they aren’t very abundant. The tomatoes are planted with our seeds and then grown on vines.  Our tomatoes cost 4 coppers per half a pound. The last vegetable we grow is broccoli. Broccoli is abundant and it costs 3 coppers per half a pound. Figs are very popular in our economy but they take up to 4 months to grow, so they are rare. The figs are grown from our trees. Our figs cost 7 coppers per 1 ounce. 
	
### 	Our economy needs animals that are necessary for survival. Some of the animals our economy has are buffalos, camels, and fish. The buffalo are used for its meat for food, its fur for clothing, and for milk and cheese. The camel is used for riding across the desert and its fur for clothes. The fish are used for food. Another animal we are raising are the Egyptians Fayoumis (chickens). The Egyptian Fayoumis are used for their meat. They are native to our civilization because they are uncommon in the wild. We also need the chickens for their eggs and feathers. 

### 	In conclusion, all of these crops and animals are important and necessary for our economy to survive and thrive.

## Jobs

### Everyone has a job in our civilization to keep the economy growing. These jobs are merchants, enforcers, craftsmen, architects, farmers, scribes, construction workers, and priests. There are different salaries for each job as well. Each of these roles is crucial for our civilization to thrive. 

### The first job are merchants. Merchants sell and trade items made by craftsmen, items they got, and others. They also spread the latest news and gossip with the rest of the citizens. Of course, our civilization needs enforcers and a military or army. They are like the police we have today, they are responsible for making sure everything is going well within the civilization and that everyone is safe. They also have to protect and make sure no one attacks or tries to invade the area. Finally, they fight battles for their civilization. The next job our civilization will need is craftsmen. Craftsmen craft many things, hence their name. They make sculptures, weapons, tools, and everyday items that people use. Now onto architects. They are responsible for designing buildings and the many structures of our civilization. And of course, we need construction workers to build the buildings designed by the architects. Another important job is farming. Farmers have to produce food for citizens in our civilization, so no one has to starve. We also need scribes to copy documents and write historical records for important people such as kings, queens, and other people who helped our community. They serve as our record-keepers and are one of the few citizens who can read and write exceptionally. Finally, we need priests, or religious leaders, to teach about our religion to our citizens. This is very important as we take religion very seriously in our civilization.

### Now, let’s review the jobs’ salaries. Merchants’ salaries vary because they choose their prices for the items they sell. Craftsmen and architects both receive 12 coppers a week. Construction workers and scribes receive 15 coppers. Farmers receive 17 coppers a week for their food. Priests receive 20 coppers a week, and finally, enforcers and militaries get 25-30 coppers a week, and a bonus after fighting in battles. Raises and bonuses can be given to workers as well. Our coppers can be told apart by how many sides it has. For example, if copper has five sides, then it is worth five coppers. Two sides are worth two coppers. A circle, or no sides at all, will be worth one copper. The maximum sides a copper could have are ten sides, which is worth ten coppers.

### In our civilization, everyone is born with their parent's job and assists their parents with that job until they are 18 years of age. After they become adults, they are permitted to choose whether or not they want to continue working with their parents’ jobs, or change jobs. Even after they start their job, they are allowed to change jobs once in a while. Of course, this does not mean they can choose whatever job they want. It depends on their skill in that position and the well they act and serve their civilization. Workers could also lose their job if they aren’t using their skills for the good of the civilization. However, they can also move up into a position of more authority if they show dedication and great skill.

### In conclusion, the jobs of our civilization are necessary for our civilization to thrive and prosper. Each job has its place in society and is all needed for many different purposes.

## Goverment and Laws

### We need to decide what type of government and our citizens will follow Democracy.  We find it fair if we all vote for a person we think is suitable to speak for us, and our Leaders are chosen by a vote, votes needed for a leader will be 3 to 5.

### Laws are important in a government, so it's mandatory to have them. Our ten laws are if you kill someone purposely, you will receive, in return, a death sentence. Our second law will be: if you kill someone accidentally, you will get a 7-year jail sentence on good behavior. It will be longer if you do not act properly. Third, if you vandalize or steal someone else's property, you will lose your index, thumb, and middle finger on one hand. Do it again, you lose the fingers on the other hand. Fourth, if you’re a doctor and someone is in pain, you have to help them if they need it. If you purposely don’t help, you will get 20% off of your daily salary. Our 5th law will be: if you illegally immigrate without an invitation, you will have 5 years in our jail, and after your time, you will be sent back. Our sixth law will be: if you threaten someone verbally, you will have 5 hours of community service. If you do something physically, you will have 15 hours of community service. Our 7th law will be: if you damage someone's property, you will pay for it and do community service for 100 minutes. Our eighth law is: if you’re selling illegal objects, you will jump into a river with both arms tied and blindfolded. Our ninth law will be: if you own a slave, then you will become an underpaid worker until death. Lastly, if you do not follow orders from the leaders of our civilization, you will be either kicked out or underfed, but it depends on what they didn't do.
 
### To showcase our laws, we will have a statue that lists all the laws, like the Hammurabi's Statue of Codes. We will enforce the law by making sure people will obey the law with palace guards, arrests, and sentences.

### In conclusion, we try to keep everything and everyone peaceful and fair among each other. If one breaks a law, there will be consequences. 

## Social Classes

### Social classes are important to be organized, so we have three tiers. Our top tier are Nobles. They are employed as priests, governors, and War Generals. It's necessary for the top tiers' age to be above 24 years old. We chose these jobs to be the main leaders because people listen to them. Our middle tier are Middletons. They are employed as merchants, farmers, artisans. For the middle tier, it's required for them to be above 16+ years old of age. We chose these jobs as the middle tier because they have a reasonable salary. Our last Tier, the poorest tier, are the lil baby people. They are either unemployed or have jobs that are underpaid, that don’t get appreciation. They can be of any age.  We chose this because they are not very appreciated because people don’t find them useful for the kingdom. It’ll be unfair if people can’t change their classes so we will allow them to change. But only if you do good, and your salary gets higher or you rank up your skill over time. 

### In conclusion, our social classes are organized, so everyone could have a place in our civilization.  We will allow people to change classes and be able to experience the best life they could ever have. 

## Religion

### Religion can be the most important part of someone's life or society. This religion is focused on the second-best letter in the alphabet, G. The religion that was made is a religion called Glingle with 10 Gods and Goddesses. The reincarnation rule in our religion is that if you live a good life, you go to Gloopa, a place of happiness, peace, and edible grass. You have 3 lives, or chances, to get into Gloopa before you turn into a Ghost and suffer for the rest of eternity. If you’re Malaysian though, you automatically go to Gloopa.

### The god that controls who goes to Gloopa and who lives another life is called Glopol. Glopol is the god of death and Gloopa. Glopol has a hunched figure with a dark cloak, and nobody has ever seen his face. He is part of the Big 3, which is the middle tier of the gods. Other gods can compete and fight for a spot in the Big 3 every 10 years or challenge a god in the Big 3.

### Glumbus is the god of war and government. Glumbus wears buffalo hide and has red ink across his body with two axes. If a government figure is corrupt, they will become cursed or not reincarnate because of Glumbus. Gloolina is the goddess of love, happiness, and family. If you don’t treat people kindly, you will be cursed with eternal ugliness. Gloolina appears as the most beautiful person that sees her. Glup Glup is the god of revenge. Glup Glup has two heads. One of his heads controls who gets revenge on who (this head is the just, kind, and fair one), while the other head controls what that revenge is (this head is cruel, unkind, and greedy). Gladimir is the goddess of animals and plants. If you treat nature with disrespect, like overhunting or arson, you will never set foot in Gloopa ever. She has goat legs, goat horns, and clothes made of leaves. Glun is the next goddess. She is the goddess of the sun. Glun is an optimist with firey gold armor. She travels in a chariot pulling the sun behind her with mechanical buffalos pulling the chariot. Glun's twin brother, Gloon, is the god of the moon. He is the complete opposite of Glun with dull, ragged clothes and is a pessimist. Gloon has a drab wooden chariot pulled by kelpie (water horses) and has the moon in tow. Glermaid is the goddess of water. She has amazing silver hair, a kelp dress, and jewelry made of fish scales and pearls. She is also apart of the Big 3 If you treat the ocean badly, like littering, you’ll never be able to swim in your next life. Geastus is the god of innovation. He’s gruff with many burns marks and whip lashes on his body from being a slave. Geastus is also unable to talk due to his cut off tongue. Gluckina is the goddess of luck and fortune. She has four arms with blue tinned skin and royal clothes. Her four arms each represent a different force of fate. If you cheat in life, you’ll be cursed with bad luck for your next lives.. The goddess of the sky is called Gly. She has a white dress that changes color depending on her mood. She also has a wreath made of golden leaves and is part of the Big 3. Globl is the god of Gloopa and the worlds and is the main god of all of the gods. He has a green toga with white, long hair and a long, bushy beard. He also has eyes that can calm anybody that looks in them. There are also less important gods like the god of drywall.

### Religious leaders are called griests. All the rituals they do must include them throwing grease into the air, angrily saying “MMMMMMMMMMM”, whilst dancing around a fire. The spectators of the rituals must throw sticks at anybody that breathes through their mouths. These rituals are done every full moon. During these rituals, we will decide who is evil and who is not. To decide who is evil, we will look at the thumb of the person being judged. We will then cut their thumb a little, and if they manage to keep all their blood on their hand, they are good. If any blood drips off they are deemed evil and will be executed via hot grease spilt over their face. There are many stories in the Glingle religion, such as how people randomly turn into jello, how the gods came to be, and how window creation began. 

### In conclusion, religion is important to societies and people’s lives. Good religion can be key to a good society and a thriving economy.

## Defense

### Having a defense system is just as important as everything else in society. Without a successful defense for a civilization, raids can be very common. 

### Our civilization will utilize cavalry, foot soldiers, longbow people, armor, and spears. These are all necessary to protect us. The weapons we will make are longbows, catapults, swords, armor, and spears. These weapons will be made from steel, iron, wood, string, leather, stone, bronze, and feathers from birds. 

### You may expect spears to be thin, pointy sticks, but no, our spears are made of hard palm or oak trees that are cut down. We chose these trees because they stay firm in the hard conditions they live in, such as sand storms. Our spears will all be 5 feet so our men can attack with distance. Spears have more leverage, they are nimble, and are better against swords or far range attacks, they pack more of a punch on the thrust, and most importantly, they have more reach from throwing. Our metal points are made from the best of the best blacksmiths. 


### We will make use of war hammers as well. The blunt piece of the hammer is used to smash armor while the pointy end is for stabbing. Our other weapons will be mostly useless against armor so having these hammers are very important in combat.

### A hauberk is very important when fighting. Hauberk protects your body while you are fighting so you don’t get hurt. The armor is made out of steel or iron plates. It’s designed to absorb blows from enemies' weapons. Its metal linked together to deflect an opponent's hit. 

### One of our several important defenses is our foot soldiers. Foot soldiers are soldiers who fight at battles or wars on foot instead of horses or other vehicles. They protect the mounted soldiers by staying in front of them, fending off any enemies who tried to attack. Foot soldiers, like all the other soldiers in our civilization, wear hauberks, which is armor that is essential for the soldiers’ protection. It was also listed in the paragraph above.

### Cavalry was necessary for the past and promoted many useful strategies like ambushes. The cavalry will have fast horses and soldiers riding them. The soldiers will carry bows, war hammers, spears, or swords and wear hauberks.

### In conclusion, we believe that these weapons will help us protect ourselves and our citizens in many different ways. They will help us defend our territory and keep it safe from invaders or rival civilizations, and will also help us invade other civilizations in contrast.
